= ucslib (beta)

Ruby Client Library for Cisco UCS Manager that could be used by DevOps toolchains - Puppet or Chef and other custom tools - to provide MaaS (Metal-as-a-Service) for installing and running OpenStack, Hadoop, etc. ucslib accepts JSON as configuration for provisioning.


** Version 0.1.1 has been released **

Major changes:

1. Provision has set_ vs create_ methods. Please update your apps.
2. Added Manage functions to associate service profiles to server pools

== Install

gem install ucslib

== Usage (example irb session)


Just do "require ucslib" in your apps. Below is an IRB session to highlight some capabilities.


➜  ucslib git:(master) ✗ irb

1.9.3p194 :001 > require 'ucslib'
 => true 
1.9.3p194 :002 > auth_json = { :username => 'admin', :password => 'admin', :ip => '172.16.75.137' }.to_json
 => "{\"username\":\"admin\",\"password\":\"admin\",\"ip\":\"172.16.75.137\"}" 
1.9.3p194 :003 > ucs_session = UCSToken.new
 => #<UCSToken:0x007ff4d92062c0> 
1.9.3p194 :004 > token_json = ucs_session.get_token(auth_json)
 => "{\"cookie\":\"1336941096/ea496248-d200-4a10-8e46-c73b59971864\",\"username\":\"admin\",\"password\":\"admin\",\"ip\":\"172.16.75.137\"}" 
1.9.3p194 :005 > ucs_inventory = UCSInventory.new
 => #<UCSInventory:0x007ff4d92cd8c0> 
1.9.3p194 :006 > ucs_provision = UCSProvision.new(token_json)
 => #<UCSProvision:0x007ff4d92c0378 @cookie="1336941096/ea496248-d200-4a10-8e46-c73b59971864", @url="https://172.16.75.137/nuova"> 
1.9.3p194 :007 > xml_dump = ucs_inventory.discover(token_json)

1.9.3p194 :008 > ucs_inventory.methods
 => [:discover, :list_blades, :list_vsans, :list_vlans, :list_cpus, :list_memory, :list_service_profiles, :list_running_firmware, :to_json, :nil?, :===, :=~, :!~, :eql?, :hash, :<=>, :class, :singleton_class, :clone, :dup, :initialize_dup, :initialize_clone, :taint, :tainted?, :untaint, :untrust, :untrusted?, :trust, :freeze, :frozen?, :to_s, :inspect, :methods, :singleton_methods, :protected_methods, :private_methods, :public_methods, :instance_variables, :instance_variable_get, :instance_variable_set, :instance_variable_defined?, :instance_of?, :kind_of?, :is_a?, :tap, :send, :public_send, :respond_to?, :respond_to_missing?, :extend, :display, :method, :public_method, :define_singleton_method, :object_id, :to_enum, :enum_for, :==, :equal?, :!, :!=, :instance_eval, :instance_exec, :__send__, :__id__] 
1.9.3p194 :009 >

1.9.3p194 :009 > ucs_inventory.list_blades(xml_dump)
Blade : 1/5 model: UCSB-B200-M3 with serial: 1049 is powered: off
Blade : 1/6 model: N20-B6625-1 with serial: 1053 is powered: off
Blade : 1/1 model: N20-B6620-1 with serial: 1045 is powered: on
Blade : 1/7 model: N20-B6740-2 with serial: 1052 is powered: off
Blade : 1/2 model: N20-B6620-1 with serial: 1054 is powered: off
Blade : 1/4 model: N20-B6620-1 with serial: 1051 is powered: off
Blade : 1/3 model: N20-B6620-1 with serial: 1055 is powered: off
 => 0 
1.9.3p194 :010 >

1.9.3p194 :010 > vlan_json = { :vlan_id => '200', :vlan_name => 'OpenStack-Mgmt' }.to_json
 => "{\"vlan_id\":\"200\",\"vlan_name\":\"OpenStack-Mgmt\"}"

1.9.3p194 :011 > ucs_provision.methods
 => [:set_power_policy, :set_chassis_discovery_policy, :set_time_zone, :set_ntp, :create_server_port, :create_network_uplink_port, :create_fc_uplink_port, :create_port_channel, :create_org, :set_local_disk_policy, :create_local_boot_policy, :create_pxe_boot_policy, :create_san_boot_policy, :create_management_ip_pool, :create_vlan, :create_mac_pool, :create_vnic_template, :create_vsan, :create_wwnn_pool, :create_wwpn_pool, :create_vhba_template, :create_uuid_pool, :create_service_profile_template, :create_service_profiles_from_template, :create_service_profiles, :to_json, :nil?, :===, :=~, :!~, :eql?, :hash, :<=>, :class, :singleton_class, :clone, :dup, :initialize_dup, :initialize_clone, :taint, :tainted?, :untaint, :untrust, :untrusted?, :trust, :freeze, :frozen?, :to_s, :inspect, :methods, :singleton_methods, :protected_methods, :private_methods, :public_methods, :instance_variables, :instance_variable_get, :instance_variable_set, :instance_variable_defined?, :instance_of?, :kind_of?, :is_a?, :tap, :send, :public_send, :respond_to?, :respond_to_missing?, :extend, :display, :method, :public_method, :define_singleton_method, :object_id, :to_enum, :enum_for, :==, :equal?, :!, :!=, :instance_eval, :instance_exec, :__send__, :__id__] 
1.9.3p194 :012 > 

1.9.3p194 :012 > ucs_provision.create_vlan(vlan_json)
 => " <configConfMos cookie=\"1336941096/ea496248-d200-4a10-8e46-c73b59971864\" response=\"yes\"> <outConfigs> <pair key=\"fabric/lan/net-OpenStack-Mgmt\"> <fabricVlan childAction=\"deleteNonPresent\" defaultNet=\"no\" dn=\"fabric/lan/net-OpenStack-Mgmt\" epDn=\"\" id=\"200\" ifRole=\"network\" ifType=\"virtual\" locale=\"external\" name=\"OpenStack-Mgmt\" operState=\"ok\" peerDn=\"\" pubNwDn=\"\" pubNwId=\"0\" pubNwName=\"\"  sharing=\"none\" status=\"created\" switchId=\"dual\" transport=\"ether\" type=\"lan\"/> </pair> </outConfigs> </configConfMos>" 
1.9.3p194 :013 > 

1.9.3p194 :015 > xml_dump = ucs_inventory.discover(token_json)

1.9.3p194 :015 > ucs_inventory.list_vlans(xml_dump)
VLAN: 1 with name: default
VLAN: 1 with name: default
VLAN: 5 with name: human-resource
VLAN: 1 with name: default
VLAN: 3 with name: finance
VLAN: 5 with name: human-resource
VLAN: 1 with name: default
VLAN: 3 with name: finance
VLAN: 100 with name: Tenant-1
VLAN: 200 with name: OpenStack-Mgmt
 => 0 
1.9.3p194 :016 > 




== Features

1. List inventory of UCS components
2. Provision - turn up ports, create port channels, pools, service profiles


== ToDo

Besides Documentation, Documentation, Documentation!

1. Firmware Management
2. Example implementation (workflow) under examples (in progress)
3. Server Pools (in progress)
4. Service Profile Association (in progress)


== Contributing to ucslib
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet.
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it.
* Start a feature/bugfix branch.
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution.
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2012 Murali Raju. See LICENSE.txt for further details.



